# Introduction to Cybersecurity

- Cybersecurity means protecting computer systems and networks from attacks.
- Common threats: malware, phishing, ransomware, DDoS attacks.
- Example: A phishing email tricks you into giving your password. 

FIREWALL- it controls the flow of traffic
types of firewalls-
stateless/packet filter FW-

A stateless firewall is a type of firewall that checks each network packet individually, based only on predefined rules such as source IP, destination IP, port number, and protocol.
It does not remember any previous packets or connections.
example- imagine a securtity card verifys ids of each person he does not remember if the same eperson came before if the id matches he allows otherwise denied.
drawback- it requires extra firewall policies for return traffic session.it open random ports and send and use multiple connections like FTP to transfer the return data.
it uses "one-size-fits-all" approach to decide whether to allow or pass the traffic.due to this bad actors try to bypass firewall and inject rougue packets through acceptable protocols or ports.

stateful FW-
It obseves the network flow.it watchees new network connections and continuously examine the traffic.if any connection behaves improper then it blocks.
if the return traffic does not match the incoming traffic and doesnot obey the firewall policy then it is dropped.
drawback-if the rougue packets which are passed are using hhtp well used protocols then it cannot detect or block.FW has to deep driver into data payload to check the hhtp.

third generation firewalls-
it looks deeper into data payloads and they implement application layer filtering which means they not only verifys the port numbers or ip address but also the content.
it distinguish between a browser traffic,a file, a blog a email,social media etc.

next genration FW- it firsts checks the packets and and determine whether to allow or or drop traffic
it checks the content inside the packets this is deep packet inspection(DPI).
if malicious activity detected then it send to sandbox for further investigation.



